README.CDN.md, before:

# Highlight.js CDN Assets

[![install size](https://packagephobia.now.sh/badge?p=highlight.js)](https://packagephobia.now.sh/result?p=highlight.js)

**This package contains only the CDN build assets of highlight.js.**

This may be what you want if you'd like to install the pre-built distributable highlight.js client-side assets via NPM. If you're wanting to use highlight.js mainly on the server-side you likely want the [highlight.js][1] package instead.

To access these files via CDN:<br>
https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/highlightjs/cdn-release@latest/build/

**If you just want a single .js file with the common languages built-in:
<https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/highlightjs/cdn-release@latest/build/highlight.min.js>**

---

## Highlight.js

Highlight.js is a syntax highlighter written in JavaScript. It works in
the browser as well as on the server. It works with pretty much any
markup, doesn’t depend on any framework, and has automatic language
detection.

If you'd like to read the full README:<br>
<https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js/blob/master/README.md>

## License

Highlight.js is released under the BSD License. See [LICENSE][7] file
for details.

## Links

The official site for the library is at <https://highlightjs.org/>.

The Github project may be found at: <https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js>

Further in-depth documentation for the API and other topics is at
<http://highlightjs.readthedocs.io/>.

Authors and contributors are listed in the [AUTHORS.txt][8] file.

[1]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/highlight.js
[7]: https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js/blob/master/LICENSE
[8]: https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js/blob/master/AUTHORS.txt

Commit message:

(chore) AUTHORS.txt -> CONTRIBUTORS.md
- Move AUTHORS.txt to CONTRIBUTORS.md
- Removes the manually maintained list of contributors
- Links to GitHub contributor graph information instead
- Update README links
- `contributors` in package.json is now core team (current and alumni)
- remove this step from the pull request template

README.CDN.md, after:

# Highlight.js CDN Assets

[![install size](https://packagephobia.now.sh/badge?p=highlight.js)](https://packagephobia.now.sh/result?p=highlight.js)

**This package contains only the CDN build assets of highlight.js.**

This may be what you want if you'd like to install the pre-built distributable highlight.js client-side assets via NPM. If you're wanting to use highlight.js mainly on the server-side you likely want the [highlight.js][1] package instead.

To access these files via CDN:<br>
https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/highlightjs/cdn-release@latest/build/

**If you just want a single .js file with the common languages built-in:
<https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/highlightjs/cdn-release@latest/build/highlight.min.js>**

---

## Highlight.js

Highlight.js is a syntax highlighter written in JavaScript. It works in
the browser as well as on the server. It works with pretty much any
markup, doesn’t depend on any framework, and has automatic language
detection.

If you'd like to read the full README:<br>
<https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js/blob/master/README.md>

## License

Highlight.js is released under the BSD License. See [LICENSE][7] file
for details.

## Links

The official site for the library is at <https://highlightjs.org/>.

The Github project may be found at: <https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js>

Further in-depth documentation for the API and other topics is at
<http://highlightjs.readthedocs.io/>.

A list of the Core Team and contributors can be found in the [CONTRIBUTORS.md][8] file.

[1]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/highlight.js
[7]: https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js/blob/master/LICENSE
[8]: https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.md
